# 38.1 - An Introduction to Plant Reproduction

---

# Asexual Reproduction

Asexual reproduction - any form of reproduction where offspring inherit DNA from only one parent. Includes binary fission, budding, and parthenogenesis

Rhizome - A modified stem that runs horizontally underground and produces new plants at the nodes (a form of asexual reproduction)

Corms - A rounded, thick underground stem that can produce new plants via asexual reproduction

Apomixis - The formation of mature seeds without fertilization occurring; a type of asexual reproduction


# Sexual Reproduction and the Plant Life Cycle


# 38.2 - Reproductive Structures

---

# The General Structure of the Flower

Sepals Form an Outer, Protective Whorl

Petals Furnish a Visual Advertisment

Stamens Produce Pollen

Carpels Produce Ovules

The "Sex" of Flowers Varies

# How Are Female Gametophytes Produced?

# How Are Male Gametophytes Produced?

# 38.3 - Pollination and Fertilization

---

Pollination - The process by which pollen reaches the carpel of a flower: in flowering plants, it is transferred from another to stigma; in gymnosperms, it reaches the ovule directly

# Pollination

Self-fertilization - The fusion of two gametes produced by the same individual to form offspring

Outcross - Reproduction by fusion of gametes produced by different individuals

Cross-pollination - Pollination of a flower by pollen from another individual, rather than by self-fertilization

Selfing vs. Outcrossing: Costs and Benefits

Pollination Syndromes

Does Pollination by Animals Encourage Plant Speciation?

# Fertilization

# 38.4 - Seeds and Fruits

---

# Seed Maturation

Storage of Nutrients

The Role of Drying

# Fruit Development and Seed Dispersal

Fruit Structure

Fruit Function

# Seed Dormancy

Requirements for Germination

The Process of Germination


# 38.5 - Embryogenesis and Vegetative Development

---

Vegetative development - The phase of plant development that involves growth and the production of all plant structures except the flower

Reproductive development - The phase of plant development that involves development of the flower and reproductive cells. Follows vegetative development and occurs when a shoot apical meristem (SAM) transitions to a flower-producing meristem


# Embryogenesis

Embryogenesis - The production of an embryo from a zygote. Embryogenesis is an early event in development of animals and plants

# Meristem Formation

# Which Genes Determine Body Axes in the Plant Embryo?

# Which Genes Determine Leaf Structure and Shape?

# 38.6 - Reproductive Development

---

# The Floral Meristem and the Flower

# The Genetic Control of Flower Structures

THE ABC Model

Testing Model

Plant Tool-kit Genes

