# Part One - Introduction to Microbiology

---
[[1. The Evolution of Microorganisms and Microbiology]]
[[2. Microscopy]]
[[3. Bacterial Cell Structure]]
[[4. Archaeal Cell Structure]]
[[5. Eukaryotic Cell Structure]]
[[6. Viruses and Other Acellular Infectious Agents]]
[[7. Bacterial and Archaeal Growth]]
[[8. Control and Microorganisms in the Environment]]
[[9. Antimicrobial Chemotherapy]]
[[10. Introduction to Metabolism]]
[[11. Catabolism: Energy Release and Conservation]]
[[12. Anabolism: The Use of Energy in Biosynthesis]]
[[13. Bacterial Genome Replication and Expression]]
[[14. Regulation of Cellular Processes]]
[[15. Eukaryotic and Archaeal Genome Replication and Expression]]
[[16. Mechanisms of Genetic Variation]]
[[17. Microbial DNA Technologies]]
[[18. Microbial Genomics]]
[[19. Archaea]]
[[20. Non-proteobacterial Gram-Negative Bacteria]]
[[21. Proteobacteria]]
[[22. Gram-Positive Bacteria]]
[[23. Protists]]
[[24. Fungi]]
[[25. Viruses]]
[[26. Exploring Microbes in Ecosystems]]
[[27. Microbial Interactions]]
[[28. Biogeochemical Cycling and Global Climate Change]]
[[29. Micro-oganisms in Marine and Freshwater Ecosystems]]
[[30. Microorganisms in Terrestrial Ecosystems]]
[[31. Innate Host Resistance]]
[[32. Adaptive Immunity]]
[[33. The Microbe-Human Ecosystem]]
[[34. Infection and Pathogenicity]]
[[35. Epidemiology and Public Health Microbiology]]
[[36. Clinical Microbiology and Immunology]]
[[37. Human Diseases Caused by Viruses and Prions]]
[[38. Human Diseases Caused by Bacteria]]
[[39. Human Diseases Caused by Fungi and Protists]]
[[40. Microbiology of Food]]
[[41. Biotechnology and Industrial Microbiology]]
[[42. Applied Environmental Microbiology]]