Host cell - A cell that can be invaded by a parasitic organism or a virus and provides an environment that is conductive to the growth and reproduction of the organism or the replication of the viruses

Virion - The infectious extracellular particle that is produced from viral infection; used for transmitting the virus between host. It consists of a DNA or RNA genome that is often enclosed within a protein shell (capsid) that may be further envelope in a phospholipid bilayer


# 33.1 - Why Do Biologists Study Viruses?

---

# Viruses Shape the Evolution of Organisms

# Viruses Causes Disease

# Current Viral Pandemics in Humans: AIDS and COVID-19

AIDS

What Is the Scope of the AIDS Pandemic?

Treatment for AIDS

How Does HIV Cause AIDS?

COVID-19

How Does SARS-CoV2 Cause COVID-19

# 33.2 - How Do Biologists Study Viruses?

# Analyzing Morphological Traits

What Are the Morphological Features of SARS-CoV-2?

# Analyzing the Genetic Material

What Characterizes the Genetic Material of Viruses

What Characterizes the Genetic Material of SARS-CoV-2?


# Analyzing the Phases of Replicative Growth

How Do Viruses Enter a Cell?

How Do Viruses Produce Proteins?

How Do Viruses Copy Their Genomes?

How Are New Virions Assembled?

How Are Virions Transmitted to New Hosts

# Analyzing How Viruses Coexist with Host Cells



# 33. 3 - What Themes Occur in the Diversification of Viruses?

---

# Where Did Viruses Come From?


Degeneration Hypothesis (also called Regressive Hypothesis): Origin of Viruses in Symbiotic Bacteria

RNA-World Hypothesis (also called Coevolution Hypothesis): Origin of Viruses at the Origin of Life

# Emerging Viruses, Emerging Diseases

Some Emerging Viruses Arise from Genome Reassortment

Using Phylogenetic Tree to Understand Emerging Viruses

Respond to a New Virus Outbreak

Reemergence of a More Virulent Virus

# Viruses Infect All Cellular Organisms

