# 40.1 - Osmoregulation and Excretion

---

Osmolarity - The concentration of dissolved substance in a solution, measured in osmoles per litre

# What Is Osmotic Stress?

# Osmotic Stress in Seawater, in Fresh Water, and on Land

# How Do Electrolytes and Water Move across Cell Membranes?

# How Do Different Forms of Nitrogenous Waste Impact Water Balance?

Why Do Nitrogenous Wastes Vary among Species?



# 40.2 - Water and Electrolyte Balance in Marine and Freshwater Fishes

---

# Osmoconformation vs. Osmoregulation in Marine Fishes

# How Do Sharks Excrete Salt?

The Role of Na+/K+ - ATPase

A Molecular Model for Salt Excretion

# How Do Freshwater Fishes Osmoregulate?

sea Bass and Salmon as Model Systems



# 40.3 - Water and Electrolyte Balance in Terrestrial Insects

---

# How Do Insects Minimize Water Loss from the Body Surface?

# How Do Insects Regulate the Amount of Water and Electrolytes They Excrete?

The Malpighian Tubules Allow Insects to Make Concentrated Urine

General Principle of Water and Electrolyte Balance Regulation in Insects



# 40.4 - Water and Electrolyte Balance in Terrestrial Vertebrates

---

# Structure of the Mammalian Kidney

# Function of the Mammalian Kidney: An Overview

# Filtration: The Renal Corpusule

# Reabsorption: The Proximal Tubule

Active Transport Occurs in Epithelial Cells

Ion and Water Movement Is Driven by a Concentration Gradient in the Interstitial Fluid

# Creating an Osmotic Gradient: The Loop of Henle

Testing Kuhn's Hypothesis

How Is the Medullary Osmotic Gradient Established and Maintained?

The Vasa Recta Removes Water and Solutes That Leave the Loop of Henle

Urea from the Collecting Duct Adds to the Medullary Osmotic Gradient

# Regulating Water and Electrolyte Balance: The Distal Tubule and Collecting Duct

Urine Formation Is under Hormonal Control

How Does ADH Work?

# Urine Formation in Non-mammalian Vertebrates

