# 42.1 - The Respiratory and Circulatory Systems

---


# 42.2 - Air and Water as Respiratory Media

---

# How Do Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide Behave in Air?

# How Do Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide Behave in Water?

What Affects the Amount of Gas in a Solution?

What Affects the Amount of Oxygen Available in an Aquatic Habitat?



# 42.3 - Organs of Gas Exchange

---

# Physical Parameters: The Law of Diffusion

# How Do Gills Work?

How Do Fishes Ventilate Their Gills?

The Fish Gill Is a Countercurrent Exchange System

# How Do Insect Tracheae Work?

# How Do Vertebrate Lungs Work?

Lung Structure and Ventilation Vary among Species

Ventilation of the Human Lung

# Homeostatic Control of Ventilation



# 42.4 - How Are Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide Transported in Blood?

---

Plasma - the non-cellular portion of blood

Platelets - A small, membrane-bound cell fragment in vertebrate blood that functions in blood clotting. Derived from large cells in the bone marrow

White blood cells/leukocytes - Any of several types of blood cells, including neutrophils, macrophages, and lymphocytes, that resides is tissue and circulate in blood and lymph. Functions in tissue repair and defence against pathogens

Red blood cells - A hemoglobin-containing that circulates in the blood and delivers oxygen from the lungs to the tissues

Hemoglobin - An oxygen-binding protein consisting of four polypeptide subunits, each containing an oxygen-binding heme group

# Structure and Function of Hemoglobin

What Is Cooperative Binding?

Why Is Cooperative Binding Important?

How Do pH and Temperature Affect Oxygen Unloading from Hemoglobin?

Oxygen Delivery by Hemoglobin Is Extremely Efficient

Comparing Hemoglobins

# CO2 Transport and the Buffering of Blood pH

The Role of Carbonic Anhydrase and Hemoglobin

What Happens When Blood Return to the Lungs?


# 42.5 - Circulation

---

# What Is an Open Circulatory System?

# What Is a Closed Circulatory System?

Closed circulatory system - A circulatory system in which the circulatory fluid (blood) is confined to blood vessels and flows in a continuous circuit

Which Lineages Have Closed Circulatory Systems?

Types of Blood Vessels

Exchange between Blood Plasma and Interstitial Fluid

The Role of the Lymphatic System

# How Does the Heart Work?

What Factors Favoured the Evolution of Multi-chambered Heart and Multiple Circulatory Circuits?

The Human Heart

Electrical Activation of the Heart

The Cardiac Cycle

# Patterns in Blood Pressure and Blood Flow

Why Is Regulation of Blood Pressure and Blood Flow Important?

Homeostatic Control of Blood Pressure

Cardiovascular Disease

