
# 46.1 - Cell-to-Cell Signalling: An Overview

---

# Major Categories of Chemical Signals

Autocrine Signals Act on the Same Cell That Secretes Them

Paracrine Signal Act on Neighbouring Cells

Endocrine Signals Are Hormones

Neural Signals Are Neurotransmitters

Neuroendocrine Signal Act on Distant Target Cells

Neural Signals Are Neurotransmitters

Neuroendocrine Signals Act on Distant Target Cells

# Hormone Signalling Pathways

# What Structures Make Up the Endocrine System?

Endocrine glands - A gland that secretes hormones directly into the bloodstream or interstitial fluid

# How Do Researchers Identity A Hormone?

# A Breakthrough In Measuring Hormone Levels


# 46.2 - How Do Hormones Act on Target Cells?

---

# Hormone Concentrations Are Small, but Their Effects Are Large

Growth hormone (GH) - A peptide hormone, produced and secreted by the mammalian anterior pituitary, that promotes lengthening of the long bones in children and muscle growth, tissue repair, and lactation in adults

Pituitary glands - A small gland located directly under the brain and physically and functionally connected to the hypothalamus. Produced and secretes an array of hormones that affect many other glands and organs

# Three Chemical Classes of Hormones

# Steroid Hormones Bind to Intracellular Receptors

# Polypeptide Hormones Bind to Receptors on the Plasma Membrane

What Acts as the Second Messenger in Signal Transduction?

Cyclic AMP (cAMP) - Cyclic adenosine monophosphate; a small molecule, derived from ATP, that is widely used by cells in signal transduction and transcriptional control


# Why Do Different Target Cells Respond in Different Ways?


# 46.3 - What Do Hormones Do?

---

# How Do Hormones Direct Developmental Processes?

The Role of T3 in Amphibian Metamorphosis

Hormone Interactions Regulate Insect Metamorphosis

Sexual Development and Activity in Vertebrates

How Photoperiod Affects Sex Hormone Release

Some Chemical Can Disrupt Hormone Signalling

# How Do Hormones Coordinate Responses to Stressors?

Long-Term Responses to Stress

What Does Cortisol Do?


# How Are Hormones Involved in Homeostasis?

Insulin, Glucagon, and Blood Glucose Homeostasis

ADH, Aldosterone, and Water and Electrolyte Balance

EPO and Oxygen Availability



# 46.4 - How Is the Production of Hormones Regulated?

---

# The Hypothalamus and Pituitary Gland

Controlling the Release of Glucocorticoids

Negative Feedback by Glucocorticoids

Patterns in Glucocorticoid Release

The Posterior Pituitary

The Anterior Pituitary

# Control of Adrenaline by Sympathetic Nerves

