# 47.1 - Asexual and Sexual Reproduction

---

# How Does Asexual Reproduction Occur?

# Switching Reproductive Modes in _Daphnia:_ A Case History

What Environment Cues Cause the Switch?

Why Do _Daphina_ Switch between Asexual and Sexual Reproduction?

# Mechanisms of Sexual Reproduction: Gametogenesis

Spermatogenesis in Mammals

Structure and Function of Sperm

Oogenesis in Mammals

Structure and Function of Eggs

# 47.2 - Reproductive Structures and Their Functions

---

# The Male Reproductive System

Functional Anatomy of the Human Male Reproductive System

Other Male Animals Exhibit Diverse Reproductive Anatomy

# The Female Reproductive System

Anatomy and Function of the Reproductive Tract of Female Birds

Functional Anatomy of the Human Female Reproductive System



# 47.3 - Fertilization and Egg Development

---

# External Fertilization

# Internal Fertilization

Sperm Competition and Second-Male Advantage

Why Is Testis Size Variable among Species?



# The Cell Biology of Fertilization

How Do Gametes from the Same Species Recognize Each Other?

What Prevents More than One Sperm from Entering the Egg?

# Why Do Some Females Lay Eggs, while Others Give Birth to Live Offspring?


# 47.4 - Embryonic Development

---

# Cleavage

# Gastrulation

Formation of Germ Layers

Creating Body Axes

# Organogenesis

Somites Differentiate into Skin, Bone, and Muscle

Differentiation of the Neural Tube and Central Nervous System



# 47.5 - The Role of Sex Hormones in Mammalian Reproduction

---

# Which Hormones Control Puberty?

# Which Hormones Control the Menstrual Cycle in Humans?

How Do Pituitary and Ovarian Hormones Interact during a Menstrual Cycle?

Manipulating Hormone Levels to Prevent Pregnancy



# 47.6 - Pregnancy and Birth in Mammals

---

# Gestation and Development in Marsupials

# Major Events during Human Pregnancy

Implantation of the Embryo

The First Trimester

The Second and Third Trimesters

# How Does the Mother Exchange Materials with the Fetus?

Oxygen and Nutrient Exchange between Mother and Fetus

Toxic Chemical Can Be Transferred from Mother to Fetus

# Birth

