# 48.1 - Innate Immunity: First Response

---

# Barriers to Entry

How Are Openings in the Body Protected?

How Do Pathogens Gain Entry?

# The Innate Immune Response

How Are Pathogens Recognized by the Innate Immune Response?

Pattern-Recognition Receptors Transduce Signals

The Inflammatory Response in Humans


# 48.2 - Adaptive Immunity: Recognition

---

# An Introduction to Lymphocytes

The Discovery of B Cells and T Cells

Where Are Lymphocytes Found?

# Lymphocytes Recognize a Diverse Array of Antigens

B Cells Also Produce Antibodies

The Discovery of T-Cell Receptors

Receptors and Antibodies Bind to Epitopes

The Discovery of Gene Recombination

# How Does the Immune System Distinguish Self from Nonself?


# 48.4 - Adaptive Immunity: Activation

---

The Clonal Selection Theory

T-Cell Activation

Antigen Presentation to Naive T Cells Via MHC Proteins

How Are Naive T Cells Activated by Antigen-Presenting Dendritic Cells?

Cytotoxic T Cells and Helper T Cells

# B-Cells Activation and Antibody Secretion

# 48.4 - Adaptive Immunity: Response and Memory

---

# How Are _Extracellular_ Pathogens Eliminated? The Humoral Response

# How Are _Intracellular_ Pathogens Eliminated? The Cell-Mediated Response

# Why Does the Immune System Reject Foreign Tissues and Organs?

# Responding to Future Infection: Immunological Memory

The Secondary Respond Is Strong and Fast

Vaccination Leads to Immunological Memory

# 48.5 - What Happens When the Immune System _Doesn't_ Work Correctly?

---

# Allergies

# Autoimmune Diseases

# Immunodeficiency

